Add S3 security mapping for native S3 (#22559)
trinodb/trino: docs/src/main/sphinx/object-storage/file-system-s3.md

* - `s3.external-id`
  - External ID for the IAM role trust policy when connecting to S3.
:::

## Security mapping

Trino supports flexible security mapping for S3, allowing for separate

> credentials or IAM roles for specific users or buckets/paths. The IAM role

Reviewer: can we somehow avoid  "bucket/paths". Maybe even by using "users or buckets or paths" .. even though they are equivalent. What do we do in the rest of the docs or what is happening in the S3 docs for this?

Author: I'll say "S3 locations" since it is bucket plus path within the bucket

Reviewer: that works for me

for a specific query can be selected from a list of allowed roles by providing
it as an *extra credential*.

Each security mapping entry may specify one or more match criteria. If multiple

> criteria are specified, all criteria must match. Available match criteria:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
criteria are specified, all criteria must match. The following match criteria are available:
```

> - `user`: Regular expression to match against username. Example: `alice|bob`

Reviewer: do we need to say what type of regex?

Reviewer: And we should explain that the examples uses an OR and therefore matches for alice and bob

Author: Do we go into this level of detail in the other documentation? Note that this documentation is copied over from the original, so we could do a more major cleanup as a separate task.

Reviewer: We should .. just have not gotten around to fixing that up.

Reviewer 2: Let's follow-up with the docs improvement after this PR is merged.

- `group`: Regular expression to match against any of the groups that the user
  belongs to. Example: `finance|sales`

> - `prefix`: S3 URL prefix. It can specify an entire bucket or a path within a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `prefix`: S3 URL prefix. You can specify an entire bucket or a path within a
```

>   bucket. The URL must start with `s3://` but will also match `s3a` or `s3n`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  bucket. The URL must start with `s3://` but also matches for `s3a` or `s3n`.
```

  Example: `s3://bucket-name/abc/xyz/`

The security mapping must provide one or more configuration settings:

- `accessKey` and `secretKey`: AWS access key and secret key. This overrides
  any globally configured credentials, such as access key or instance credentials.
- `iamRole`: IAM role to use if no user provided role is specified as an
  extra credential. This overrides any globally configured IAM role. This role

>   is allowed to be specified as an extra credential, although specifying it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can be specified as an extra credential, although specifying it
```

>   explicitly has no effect, as it would be used anyway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  explicitly has no effect, as it is used anyway.
```

- `roleSessionName`: Optional role session name to use with `iamRole`. This can only
  be used when `iamRole` is specified. If `roleSessionName` includes the string

>   `${USER}`, then the `${USER}` portion of the string will be replaced with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `${USER}`, then the `${USER}` portion of the string is replaced with the
```

  current session's username. If `roleSessionName` is not specified, it defaults
  to `trino-session`.
- `allowedIamRoles`: IAM roles that are allowed to be specified as an extra
  credential. This is useful because a particular AWS account may have permissions
  to use many roles, but a specific user should only be allowed to use a subset
  of those roles.
- `kmsKeyId`: ID of KMS-managed key to be used for client-side encryption.
- `allowedKmsKeyIds`: KMS-managed key IDs that are allowed to be specified as an extra
  credential. If list cotains `*`, then any key can be specified via extra credential.
- `endpoint`: The S3 storage endpoint server. This optional property can be used
  to override S3 endpoints on a per-bucket basis.

> - `region`: The region S3 client should connect to. This optional property can be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `region`: The S3 region to connect to. This optional property can be used
```

  to override S3 regions on a per-bucket basis.

> The security mapping entries are processed in the order listed in the configuration

Reviewer: maybe "JSON configuration".

> JSON. More specific mappings should thus be specified before less specific mappings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON. Therefore, more specific mappings must be specified before less specific mappings.
```

For example, the mapping list might have URL prefix `s3://abc/xyz/` followed by
`s3://abc/` to allow different configuration for a specific path within a bucket
than for other paths within the bucket. You can specify the default configuration
by not including any match criteria for the last entry in the list.

> In addition to the rules above, the default mapping can contain the optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the preceding rules, the default mapping can contain the optional
```

> `useClusterDefault` boolean property set to true to use the default S3 configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`useClusterDefault` boolean property set to `true` to use the default S3 configuration.
```

It cannot be used with any other configuration settings.

If no mapping entry matches and no default is configured, access is denied.

> The configuration JSON can either be retrieved from a file via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration JSON can be retrieved from a file via
```

Example JSON configuration:

```json
{
  "mappings": [
    {
      "prefix": "s3://bucket-name/abc/",
      "iamRole": "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/test_path"
    },
    {
      "user": "bob|charlie",
      "iamRole": "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/test_default",
      "allowedIamRoles": [
        "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/test1",
        "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/test2",
        "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/test3"
      ]
    },
    {
      "prefix": "s3://special-bucket/",
      "accessKey": "AKIAxxxaccess",
      "secretKey": "iXbXxxxsecret"
    },
    {
      "prefix": "s3://regional-bucket/",
      "iamRole": "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/regional-user",
      "endpoint": "https://bucket.vpce-1a2b3c4d-5e6f.s3.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com",
      "region": "us-east-1"
    },
    {
      "prefix": "s3://encrypted-bucket/",
      "kmsKeyId": "kmsKey_10"
    },
    {
      "user": "test.*",
      "iamRole": "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/test_users"
    },
    {
      "group": "finance",
      "iamRole": "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/finance_users"
    },
    {
      "iamRole": "arn:aws:iam::123456789101:role/default"
    }
  ]
}
```

> :::{list-table}

Reviewer: Maybe add title for table

> :header-rows: 1

Reviewer: Maybe add percentages for the columns depending on how it renders now.

* - Property name
  - Description
* - `s3.security-mapping.enabled`
  - Enable the security mapping feature.
* - `s3.security-mapping.config-file`

>   - The JSON configuration file containing security mappings.

Reviewer: Path to the JSON 

relative to ? or absolute? or both

Author: It can be relative or absolute. I don't think we discuss "relative to what" in every place that uses additional files, but it's relative to the server configuration directory. Do we have a place that discusses that to link to?

Reviewer: Not sure we have a generic place .. maybe just go with `Absolute or relative path to the JSON configuration file.`

* - `s3.security-mapping.config-uri`
  - The REST-endpoint URI containing security mappings.
* - `s3.security-mapping.json-pointer`
  - A JSON pointer (RFC 6901) to mappings inside the JSON retrieved from the
    config file or REST-endpoint. The default is the root of the document.
* - `s3.security-mapping.iam-role-credential-name`
  - The name of the *extra credential* used to provide the IAM role.
* - `s3.security-mapping.kms-key-id-credential-name`
  - The name of the *extra credential* used to provide the KMS-managed key ID.
* - `s3.security-mapping.refresh-period`

>   - How often to refresh the security mapping configuration.

Reviewer: Something like 

Time duration between between repeated refreshing of the security mapping configuration

Reviewer: could also link to the prop duration description.

* - `s3.security-mapping.colon-replacement`

>   - The character or characters to be used in place of the colon (`:`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The character or characters to use instead of a colon (`:`)
```

    character when specifying an IAM role name as an extra credential.
    Any instances of this replacement value in the extra credential value

>     will be converted to a colon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    are converted to a colon.
```

* - `s3.external-id`
  - External ID for the IAM role trust policy when connecting to S3.
:::

> ## Security mapping

Reviewer 3: Maybe move this "copy from legacy docs" stuff to a separate commit
